Welcome to our next lesson,
the business case for data science.
In this lesson, we train our focus on
the business context within which data science initiatives may be implemented.
Creating a data science strategy is not a standalone activity.
It must be driven by your overarching business operations and strategy.
A critical starting point for any data strategy is articulation of a businesses
strategic objectives and identification
of opportunities for data science based transformation.
This lesson discusses how a leader may specify
the data science projects that can help achieve the company's business strategy.
How a data science project may drive value for the business,
and how the data for those initiatives can be creatively sourced.
Applying a hypothesis led approach to various data science use cases,
you will become familiar with evaluating whether
a given business opportunity might benefit from data science approaches,
racking and stacking potential opportunities across
the business to prioritize and identify the optimal places to start,
and actually designing data science projects to
predict and optimize outcomes towards capitalizing on business opportunities.
Upon completion of this lesson,
you will be able to successfully carry out the following tasks.
Define an organization's data science roadmap.
Here we'll identify the best projects to start with and
detailed strategies for successfully launching data science initiatives.
Second, we'll be able to determine a starting point.
The most appropriate first project or suite of
projects to capture the most promising opportunities and
launch the data science function with adequate momentum to
ensure its long-term operation within the organization.
Third, you'll be able to work with fellow executives to set and
manage reasonable expectations of success for data science projects.
Fourth, given a set of candidate data science projects,
you'll determine the relative strategic importance, cost,
complexity of implementation, risk,
likelihood of value capture,
and magnitude of benefit for each of the projects.
Finally for any data science project,
you'll be able to identify strategies for meeting three key factors of success.
Executive sponsorship,
strategic alignment with core business interests and scope conditions.